
Welcome to the Chord and Arpeggio Builder tutorial!

Here, we will show you around all the features of this tool.
If you have any additional questions or concerns not covered
in this tutorial, feel free to contact us by emailing:

chord.arpeggio.builder@gmail.com



The Toolbar is located at the top-left of the main menu. It allows you to 
change multiple settings to help make your practicing and learning easier
and more enjoyable.

1 - Tuning Menu - This menu allows you to choose between built-in tunings
and create your own custom tunings.
2 - Options Menu - This menu allows you to change settings in the neck display,
including colors and shapes of the notes.
3 - Help Menu - This menu has different resources to aid you in your time
learning.
4 - Chord Builder Tab - This allows you to directly input the key you would 
like to create.
5 - Alternative Build Tab - This allows you to create a more guided creation 
of the key.
6 - Scales Tab - This allows for the building of scales in a specific key 
used in arpeggios.



The Builder Tab is the default way to input a key and result in
the root chord for that key.

7 - Text Entry Box - This is where you would input your desired key.
8 - Guitar Button - After you type in your key, click this button to create
the chords on a guitar neck.
9 - Bass Button - After you type in your key, click this button to create
the chords on a bass guitar neck.
10 - 5 String Button - After you type in your key, click this button to create
the chords on a 5 string guitar neck
11 - Quit Button - Clicking the quit button exits the tool.



The Alternative Build Tab is meant for new users who might not
know what to input in the Builder Tab, to still be able to use this
tool.

12 - Key Options - This list of options allows you to see all of your
choices for making your desired key.
13 - Major or Minor Option - One of these two, paired with your choice
from the Key Options, make up the large majority of possible chords featured
in this tool.
14 - Instrument Option - This allows you to choose between a guitar, bass
guitar, or 5 string guitar.



The Scales Tab allows you to create illistrated scales used for arpeggios and gaining
a general understanding of the relation of notes.

15 - Key Dropdown Menu - Here, just like before, you get to choose the key in which
you would like the scale to be built.
16 - Scale Type - Here you can choose the type of scale you would like. If you need
help understanding the different types of scales, we recommend going to the help page
on the Main Menu.
17 - Instrument Option - Just like before, you can choose which instrument you would like.
18 - Build Button - After you choose you key and scale type, press the Build Button to
build the illustration of the scale.



The Tuning Menu allows you a way to completely simulate a change in the tuning of the
instrument.

19 - Custom - This option allows you to change the tuning of the instrument in any way
you like. You are also able to save custom tunings as well.
20 - Delete Custom - This option is the way to delete your saved custom tunings.
21 - Default Tunings - The top three listed tunings are commonly used tunings for the 
three instruments, which are Standard E, Drop D, and Five String.
22 - Saved Tunings - Below the default tunings are your list of saved tunings which can
just be clicked to activate.



The Options Menu allows you to change the look of the illustrated notes to fit personal
needs.

23 - Default Colors - These set the color of the notes to the set default colors.
24 - Colorblind Mode - This option is meant for users who are colorblind. It changes the
colors to a more colorblind friendly color palette.
25 - Dot Mode - By default, illustrated notes are in the shape of a dot, this will return
the shape to the dot mode if another mode has been previously chosen.
26 - Shape Mode - This mode changes the shape of the notes to different shapes. This is an
alternative option to the Colorblind Mode.
27 - This is a note in Dot mode and with Default Colors.
28 - This is the same note in Dot mode but also in Colorblind Mode.
29 - This in the same note in Shape mode and with Default Colors.



The Help Menu provides usful resources to aid in your practicing experience.

30 - Help - This provides a list of links and resources to get brief background information
about specific musical topics.
31 - Tutorial - By clicking this option, you will be taken to this tutorial to help you learn
about the tool itself.
32 - About - This option lets you read about the tool and its creation, along with contact
information for questions, comments, or concerns.

This is an example of the Chord and Scale Display, specifically a Scale illustration.

33 - This the neck of your guitar instrument. It is oriented as if you were olding the guitar in the playing position and looking down at the neck.
Each note in the Chord/Scale is marked and labeled. If you were to click any of those marked notes, you would create an inversion and change the 
root note to that note, creating a new scale.
34 - These notes, and the matching notes on the other end, mark the names of the strings. These would change depending on if you changed the tuning.
35 - This is a list of the all the notes in the Chord/Scale's key.
36 - This is the reference of colors in the key, letting you know what and where the root (first), third, fifth, and seventh, notes are in the key. 
37 - This lets you know exactly what the key is called. It will change depending on the inversion you create. (only works on Scales)